# sql-digital-media-trends

To apply my SQL skills in a realistic setting, I plan to work with a mock database like the Chinook dataset, which mirrors a digital media store. To simulate a real-world scenario, I will pose as an analyst being asked questions from a CEO. I’ll create and interpret query results into understandable insights and use tools like Tableau or Power BI for data visualization. 


The Chinook data model represents a digital media store, including tables for artists, albums, media tracks, invoices and customers.

Pretend the CEO of the company has specifically asked you to answers questions. The CEO may be wondering:

Revenue and Sales Metrics
What is the total revenue generated by the store?
What are the top 10 best-selling tracks and albums by revenue?

Music and Artist Insights
What genres of music are most popular?


Geographic Insights
Which cities or countries generate the most revenue?

Transaction and Seasonal Trends
Are there specific times of the year when sales are higher or lower?

Extra: 
- Are there any tracks or albums that have not been purchased at all?
- Which artists generate the most revenue?
- Who are the top 5 customers in terms of total spending?
- What is the average transaction value?


How can I explain these answers to him? 

exercise solidifies fundaments like: JOINS, aggregations, sorting/filtering dates, etc.

Tableau visualizations: 

Lessons learned:
- End to end querying to visualization process. This end-to-end process will mimic a real-world scenario, providing practical experience through a project that goes beyond online exercises.
- Readable and formatting conventions
- Explaning queried data 
- More research on formatting and conventions for consistency

Next steps: practice more complex syntax like windows functions (LAG, LEAD, RANK).
Add more questions and visualizations
- What is the percentage growth in revenue month-over-month or year-over-year?
- Which artists show the greatest increase in popularity over time?